.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii kiinfo.1
.\"
.ad l
.TH kiinfo-kparse 1 "7.3 - December 21, 2021" version "7.3"
.SH NAME
kiinfo  -  LinuxKI data collection and analysis engine

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kiinfo \-kparse [FLAGS] [OPTIONS]

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBkiinfo -kparse\fR option produces the Kparse System Overview Report in either text or html format with a variety of information from the LinuxKI binary data created by the runki script using either LiKI trace data or ftrace data.    The kparse option will attempt to identify various patterns and provides a warning if a condition _may_ be suspected of causing some performance issues and warrants additional investigation.

.SH OPTIONS

See kiinfo(1).

.SH FLAGS
.B help
.RS
Provide help information for kparse flags
.RE

.B kptree
.RS
When used with kiinfo -kipid pidtree, links PID numbers to kipid output in the PIDS directory.
.RE

.B nooracle
.RS
Skip oracle section in kparse output.
.RE

.B nofutex
.RS
Do not collect futex statistics
.RE

.B mangle
.RS
Leave C++ function names mangled
.RE

.B blkfrq
.RS
Add Disk Block Frequency stats to Kparse report
.RE

.B lite
.RS
Reduce memory footprint of kiinfo for large collections. Some per-thread sections are omitted.
.RE

.B edus=<filename>
.RS
Specify output of "db2pd -edus" to get DB2 thread names.
.RE

.B jstack=<filename>
.RS
Jstack output file to use (default jstack.<timestamp>)
.RE

.B events=[default | all | <kitool> | <event>]
.RS
Trace events to be traced
.RE

.RS 7
\fBdefault\fR - Only trace default events.
.RE
.RS 7
\fBall\fR - Trace all valid ftrace events
.RE
.RS 7
\fB<kitool>\fR - Only the events needed for a specific subtool is used.
.RE
.RS 7
\fB<event>\fR - Trace a specific event.
.RE

.B subsys=<subsys>
.RS
Enable tracing only for certain subsystems.  Valid subsystems include: power, scsi, block, sched, syscalls, irq.
.RE


.SH EXAMPLES

1) Running kiinfo -kparse on LinuxKI data from the runki script and link PID numbers to the kipid output in the PIDS subdirectory

.B $ kiinfo -kparse kptree -html -ts 1215_0744 >kp.1215_0744.html

.SH AUTHOR
Mark C. Ray <mark.ray@hpe.com>

.SH SEE ALSO
LinuxKI(1) kiinfo(1) kiinfo-dump(1) kiinfo-likidump(1) kiinfo-likimerge(1) kiinfo-live(1) kiinfo-kitrace(1) kiinfo-kipid(1) kiinfo-kiprof(1) kiinfo-kidsk(1) kiinfo-kirunq(1) kiinfo-kiwait(1) kiinfo-kifile(1) kiinfo-kisock(1) kiinfo-kifutex(1) kiinfo-kidock(1) kiinfo-kiall(1) kiinfo-clparse(1) runki(1) kiall(1) kiclean(1) kivis-build(1) kivis-start(1) kivis-stop(1)

https://github.com/HewlettPackard/LinuxKI/wiki
