.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii kiinfo.1
.\"
.ad l
.TH kiinfo-likidump 1 "7.3 - December 21, 2021" version "7.3"
.SH NAME
kiinfo  -  LinuxKI data collection and analysis engine

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kiinfo [\-likidump | \-likid] [flags, flags, ...] [OPTIONS]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBkiinfo -likidump\fR is used to collect the kernel trace records using the LiKI tracing mechanism.   The             -likidump option will enable the key LiKI trace records, then it will read the debugfs per-cpu ring buffers and dump the trace records to related ki.bin .<cpu>.<timestamp> files.  Kiinfo -likidump is executed by the runki script to collect the kernel trace data along with other helpful files used for post-processing by other options such as \fBkiinfo -kitrace\fR and \fBkiinfo -kparse\fR.

Default LiKI trace events enabled are:

.IP \(bu 2 
Scheduler records - sched_swtch, sched_wakeup, sched_wakeup_new
.IP \(bu 2 
Block IO records - block_rq_insert, block_rq_issue, block_rq_complete, block_rq_requeue
.IP \(bu 2
Power frequency events - power_freq
.IP \(bu 2
System calls - sys_enter, sys_exit.
.IP \(bu 2
CPU profiling events - hardclock
.PP

In order to use \fBkiinfo -likidump\fR, the debugfs must be mounted and the likit.ko DLKM module must be loaded.

.SH OPTIONS

See kiinfo(1).

.SH FLAGS
.B help
.RS 
Print syntax for kiinfo -kitracedump.
.RE

.B debug_dir=<dirname>
.RS 
debugfs mount point.  By default, uses /sys/kernel/debug.
.RE

.B 
pid=<pid>
.RS 
Filter LiKI trace data on PID
.RE

.B 
tgid=<tgid>
.RS 
Filter LiKI trace data on Task Group ID (TGID)
.RE

.B 
dev=<dev>
.RS 
Filter LiKI trace data on device 
.RE

.B 
cpu=<cpu>
.RS 
Filter LiKI trace data on CPU
.RE

.B 
dur=<seconds>
.RS 
Number of seconds to collect data.  Default value is 20.
.RE

.B 
msr
.RS 
Collect advanced CPU statistics such as LLC Hit%, CPI, average CPU frequency, and SMI count
.RE

.B sysignore=<filename>
.RS
Do not trace system calls listed in the <filenamee>. This can reduce trace data by eliminating frequently called system calls, such as getrusage(),gettimeofday(), time(), etc...
.RE

.B events=[default | all | <kitool> | event]
.RS
Trace events to be traced
.RE

.RS 7
\fBdefault\fR - Only trace default events.
.RE
.RS 7
\fBall\fR - Trace all valid ftrace events
.RE
.RS 7
\fB<kitool>\fR - Only the events needed for a specific subtool is used.
.RE
.RS 7
\fB<event>\fR - Trace a specific event.
.RE

.B subsys=<subsys>
.RS
Enable tracing only for certain subsystems.  Valid subsystems include: power, scsi, block, sched, syscalls, irq.   
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES

Typical invocation performed by runki to collect data with kiinfo -likidump:

.B $ runki 

1) Dump all KI trace events for 5 seconds using the default debugfs mount point (this is invoked by the runki script).

.RS 0
.B $ mount -t debugfs debugfs /sys/kernel/debug
.RE
.RS 0
.B $ insmod /opt/linuxki/likit.ko
.RE
.RS 0
.B $ kiinfo -likidump events=all,dur=5
.RE
.RS 0
.B $ rmmod likit.ko
.RE

2) Note that the subsys and events could be combined.   For example, you can trace the same events used by kidsk and also add the scsi related events as well:

.B $ kiinfo -likid events=kidsk,subsys=scsi,dur=20

3) Collect all event data (including non-default events) for specific tasks and ignore the gettimeofday() and getrusage() system calls:

.B $ cat ignore_syscalls
.RS 0
getrusage
.RE
.RS 0
gettimeofday
.RE
.RS 0 
.B $ kiinfo -likid events=all,pid=1234,pid=62503,sysignore=ignore_syscalls
.RE

.SH AUTHOR
Mark C. Ray <mark.ray@hpe.com>

.SH SEE ALSO
LinuxKI(1) kiinfo(1) kiinfo-dump(1) kiinfo-likimerge(1) kiinfo-live(1) kiinfo-kparse(1) kiinfo-kitrace(1) kiinfo-kipid(1) kiinfo-kiprof(1) kiinfo-kidsk(1) kiinfo-kirunq(1) kiinfo-kiwait(1) kiinfo-kifile(1) kiinfo-kisock(1) kiinfo-kifutex(1) kiinfo-kidock(1) kiinfo-kiall(1) kiinfo-clparse(1) runki(1) kiall(1) kiclean(1) kivis-build(1) kivis-start(1) kivis-stop(1)

https://github.com/HewlettPackard/LinuxKI/wiki
