.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii kiinfo.1
.\"
.ad l
.TH kivis-start 1 "7.3 - December 21, 2021" version "7.3"
.SH NAME
kivis-start \- Starts the LinuxKI visualization Docker container

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kivis-start

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B kivis-start
runs the Docker container
.IB $USER -linuxki
(where
.I $USER
is replaced with the current username) and shows the hosted files in the default web browser. The container starts the Apache web server (with PHP extensions) which hosts the files in the current directory. After the container is started, the default browser is opened to show either the
.B kp.*.html
page (if there is only one in the current directory or subdirectories) or the files in the current directory.

The command must be run from the directory containing the output of the
.B kiall
command. If the
.B -V
option is used when
.B kiall
is run, then the visualizations will be shown as well.

When finished viewing the reports, run
.B kivis-stop
to stop the container.

If the
.IB $USER -linuxki
container is already running, it will be stopped and a new container will be started.

.SH USAGE

Generate the report, with visualizations:
.RS
.B $ kiall -r -V
.RE

Start the container:
.RS
.B $ kivis-start
.RE

Browser opens to show the report.

When finished viewing the reports:
.RS
.B $ kivis-stop
.RE

.SH NOTES
Access to the web pages hosted by the container will be blocked by SELinux unless SELinux is in permissive mode or disabled.

.SH AUTHOR
Christopher Voltz <christopher@voltz.ws>

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR LinuxKI (1),
.BR kiinfo-dump (1),
.BR kiinfo-likidump (1),
.BR kiinfo-likimerge (1),
.BR kiinfo-live (1),
.BR kiinfo-kparse (1),
.BR kiinfo-kitrace (1),
.BR kiinfo-kipid (1),
.BR kiinfo-kiprof (1),
.BR kiinfo-kidsk (1),
.BR kiinfo-kirunq (1),
.BR kiinfo-kiwait (1),
.BR kiinfo-kifile (1),
.BR kiinfo-kisock (1),
.BR kiinfo-kifutex (1),
.BR kiinfo-kidock (1),
.BR kiinfo-kiall (1),
.BR kiinfo-clparse (1),
.BR runki (1),
.BR kiall (1),
.BR kiclean (1),
.BR kivis-build (1),
.BR kivis-stop (1)

.UR https://github.com/HewlettPackard/LinuxKI/wiki
.UE
